JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
I was going to fire Comey, my
decision.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Conflicting
statements from
the White House add to confusion
following
the abrupt firing of the
director of the FBI,
James Comey.
Then: a closer look at the man
behind the
memo arguing for Comey's removal
-- what we
know about the deputy attorney
general, Rod
Rosenstein, and how he could
steer the Russia
investigation going forward.
And Making Sense of gender roles
on the job
-- why many men still avoid
work, like nursing
or teaching, traditionally
dominated by women.
BETSEY STEVENSON, Former Council
of Economic
Advisers Member: There are a lot
of guys who
feel, either because their
friends or their
community or because of
themselves, like,
when they take one of these jobs
that they
are doing something girly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It was another
day in Washington
that generated more questions
than answers,
with apparently conflicting
statements coming
from the White House, fueling
the firestorm
surrounding the dismissal of the
former FBI
director.
And our William Brangham begins.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: President
Trump came out
swinging today.
In an interview with NBC's
Lester Holt, the
president laid into James Comey,
the man he
fired just two days ago.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
Look, he's a showboat.
He's a grandstander.
The FBI has been in turmoil.
You know that.
I know that.
Everybody knows that.
You take a look at the FBI a
year ago, it
was in virtual turmoil, less
than a year ago.
It hasn't recovered from that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Those remarks
came as the
man who's now filling in for
Comey, acting
FBI Director Andrew McCabe,
painted a starkly
different picture of his former
boss.
®MD-BO /ANDREW MCCABE, Acting FBI
Director:
I hold Director Comey in the
absolute highest
regard.
I have the highest respect for
his considerable
abilities and his integrity.
And it has been the greatest
privilege and
honor of my professional life to
work with
him.
I can tell you also that
Director Comey enjoyed
broad support within the FBI and
still does
to this day.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: McCabe spoke
at a Senate
hearing today to discuss various
global threats,
but Democrats spared little time
blasting
the president for his dismissal
of Comey,
who had been scheduled for this
same hearing.
SEN.
MARK WARNER (D), Virginia:
President Trump's
actions this week cost us an
opportunity to
get at truth, at least for
today.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For his part,
McCabe pledged
that the ongoing FBI
investigation into Russian
meddling in the election, and
whether Trump's
team colluded in that meddling,
will continue
no matter what.
ANDREW MCCABE: The work of the
men and women
of FBI continues, despite any
changes in circumstance,
any decisions.
So there has been no effort to
impede our
investigation to date.
Simply put, sir, you cannot stop
the men and
women of FBI from doing right
thing, protecting
the American people and
upholding the Constitution.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: McCabe added
he won't be
updating the president on that
Russia investigation.
Senators pressed him about Mr.
Trump's claim
that Comey had told the
president he wasn't
personally under investigation.
McCabe said he couldn't comment
on the specific
conversations between the two.
Republican Susan Collins of
Maine followed
up.
SEN.
SUSAN COLLINS (R), Maine: Is it
standard practice
for the FBI to inform someone
that they are
not a target of an
investigation?
ANDREW MCCABE: It is not.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Meanwhile, in
that same
NBC interview, the president
doubled down
on that claim, saying Comey told
him three
times that he wasn't a target.
DONALD TRUMP: He said it once at
dinner, and
then he said it twice during
phone calls.
LESTER HOLT, NBC News: Did you
call him?
DONALD TRUMP: In one case, I
called him.
In one case, he called me.
LESTER HOLT: And did you ask, am
I under investigation?
DONALD TRUMP: I actually asked
him, yes.
I said, if it's possible, will
you let me
know, am I under investigation?
He said, you are not under
investigation.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Mr. Trump also
said he had
decided to fire Comey long
before meeting
with Attorney General Jeff
Sessions and Deputy
Attorney General Rod Rosenstein
on Monday.
DONALD TRUMP: I was going to
fire Comey, my
decision.
It was not...
LESTER HOLT: You had made the
decision before
they came...
(CROSSTALK)
DONALD TRUMP: I was going to
fire Comey.
There's no good time to do it,
by the way.
They...
(CROSSTALK)
LESTER HOLT: Because, in your
letter, you
said, "I accepted their
recommendation."
DONALD TRUMP: Yes, well, they...
LESTER HOLT: So, you had already
made the
decision?
DONALD TRUMP: Oh, I was going to
fire regardless.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But that
seemed to contradict
what senior White House
officials had been
saying all week.
Press Secretary Sean Spicer,
Vice President
Mike Pence, and Deputy Press
Secretary Sarah
Huckabee Sanders had all
indicated that the
firing was driven largely by
concerns from
the Justice Department.
But news reports had suggested
otherwise.
And The Washington Post reported
last night
Rosenstein threatened to resign
after the
White House cast him as the
prime mover of
the decision to fire Comey.
At today's press briefing,
Sanders offered
a justification for the seeming
inconsistencies.
SARAH HUCKABEE SANDERS, Deputy
White House
Press Secretary: I think it's
pretty simple.
I haven't had a chance to have
the conversation
directly the president.
I have since had the
conversation with him
right before I walked on today.
And he laid it out very clearly.
He had already made that
decision.
And the recommendation that he
got from the
deputy attorney general just
further solidified
his decision.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Meanwhile,
outrage over
Comey's ouster stretched beyond
Washington.
Lawmakers, including New
Jersey's Tom MacArthur,
have seen vocal opposition at
town hall meetings
to the president's action.
MAN: We need an independent
prosecutor.
We need a bipartisan select
committee to investigate
this.
When are you going to open your
eyes?
We all see this.
REP.
TOM MACARTHUR (R), NEW JERSEY:
And I hear
you, but there are loads of
other people who
don't see it that way.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Despite those
calls, there
have been few signs so far that
a special
counsel will be named.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we get more
now from the
White House and from Capitol
Hill from our
own John Yang and Lisa
Desjardins.
Lisa, I'm going to start with
you.
You were at the hearing today
where James
Comey's successor, at least for
the time being,
Andrew McCabe -- we just heard a
little bit
from him, his first public
appearance, I guess,
what, in less than 48 hours
after this whole
thing came down.
What stood out to you from this
hearing?
LISA DESJARDINS: Quite a day,
huh?
On his third day on the job,
Andrew McCabe
was in front of Senate
Intelligence Committee
members, and for the most part,
Judy, he was
noncontroversial.
But when asked about his former
boss, FBI
-- James Comey, McCabe said
this.
He defended him as man of
integrity who McCabe
said enjoys broad support in the
FBI to this
day.
That's important because it
directly counters
what the White House has said.
They said that Comey was
undermining morale
at the agency.
Minutes after McCabe said that,
the Senate
intelligence chairman,
Republican Richard
Burr, came out, also defended
Comey.
That became a theme, Judy.
I spoke to several Republican
senators who
today felt they had to defend
Comey's reputation
against attacks from the White
House.
Meanwhile, as Republicans were
doing that,
one Democratic senator on the
Intelligence
Committee, Kamala Harris of
California, came
out and said she thinks Jeff
Sessions should
resign over his role in the
Comey firing.
Now, all of this, what does it
mean?
Basically, Judy, I saw the dial
move away
from the president's position
for both Republicans
and Democrats today.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, meantime,
John, from the
White House, the timeline on
exactly what
happened seemed to be shifting,
and the explanation
seemed to be shifting a little
bit.
Tell us about that.
JOHN YANG: It didn't just seem
to shift, Judy.
It shifted.
They first said that this all
happened on
Tuesday, that the attorney
general and the
deputy attorney general came to
the president
with this recommendation, which
he accepted
on the spot.
Then we learned that actually
there was a
meeting on Monday at which this
was discussed.
And then it turns out, as the
president said
in the interview and as Sarah
Huckabee Sanders
said in the briefing today, this
was actually
something on the president's
mind from since
last week, when he watched the
-- James Comey's
testimony on the Hill.
Also shifting where it came
from.
They originally said this was
all Rod Rosenstein
-- Rosenstein's idea.
Now the president and his
advisers acknowledge
he had made this decision before
that meeting
on Monday.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Lisa, just
quickly, interesting,
there was a Republican at the
Capitol today
saying the president himself may
not be under
investigation.
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes, not just
any Republican,
Republican chairman of the
Judiciary Committee,
Chuck Grassley.
He says he met -- he wrote a
letter saying
he met with FBI Director Comey
and that Comey
shared with him who the targets
were of the
investigation, as per his
ranking on Judiciary
Committee.
Now, Grassley said he can't
divulge who the
targets are, but, in a carefully
worded statement,
Judy, Grassley said, nothing
that Comey told
him contradicts President
Trump's statement
that he is not under
investigation.
That's a double or triple
negative, but, essentially,
Grassley is indicating here
that, to his knowledge,
the president is not under
investigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just finally,
John, what
are you hearing from the White
House about
whether what has happened is
going to affect
the pace of this Russia
investigation?
JOHN YANG: Well, that's another
thing that's
evolved over the last couple of
days, Judy.
On Tuesday night, Sarah Huckabee
Sanders said
there is no there there of the
Russian investigation.
She said, it's time to move on,
clearly indicating
that the White House wanted it
closed.
But since then and again today,
she said any
investigation that was going on,
on Monday
before Comey was fired is still
going on today.
They want the FBI to do what
they think is
proper and fit, and they say
they want this
investigation to continue, but
to end as quickly
as possible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I guess it
doesn't get
any more active at either place,
at the Capitol
or the White House.
Thank you both, John Yang, Lisa
Desjardins.
And now to what all this means
for the functioning
and the stability of the Trump
presidency.
We turn to man who has had a
front-row in
the White House.
Leon Panetta was chief of staff
for President
Bill Clinton.
He then went on to serve as
director of the
CIA and secretary of defense in
the Obama
administration.
Secretary Panetta, thank you for
talking with
us.
So, as somebody who has had a
top job, the
top job at the White House as
chief of staff,
as we said, at the Pentagon and
the CIA, how
do you read how this Comey
episode has unfolded?
LEON PANETTA, Former U.S.
Secretary of Defense:
Well, it's a very confusing
picture, obviously,
because a number of reasons have
been presented
as to why it's happened.
But, you know, deep down,
there's no question
that, however it happened, and
for whatever
reasons it happened, that this
has undermined
the credibility of a very vital
national security
investigation, and somehow that
credibility
has to be restored.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How has it
undermined that
credibility?
LEON PANETTA: It's undermined
the credibility
because, obviously, the FBI was
investigating
the whole issue of Russian
interference in
our election.
And despite the various reasons
that have
been presented, there's no
question that the
president remains concerned
about that Russian
investigation.
And tying that concern with the
fact that
he fired the FBI director, and
in the way
he fired the FBI director,
clearly undermines
the credibility of the
investigation.
Is the White House going to
continue to try
to influence the direction of
that investigation?
The key right now is for the
Congress, for
the Justice Department, for the
president
to make sure they take steps to
restore the
credibility of that
investigation by appointing
a new director of the FBI who is
fair and
objective and credible.
And I think they should also,
frankly, give
consideration to the appointment
of a special
prosecutor, because the very
fact that this
president continued to ask the
FBI director
as to whether or not he was the
subject of
an investigation, when a
president does that,
it clearly is sending a signal
that the White
House is concerned about that
investigation.
Frankly, it has to be an
independent investigation,
and it cannot have or be
influenced by the
White House.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are you saying,
Secretary Panetta,
that there's no way the American
people can
have confidence in this
investigation unless
there is an outside, independent
special counsel?
LEON PANETTA: Well, my concern
is that, when
the president himself has asked
the question
about whether or not he's the
target of an
investigation, something,
frankly, that, at
least in my time, is unheard of,
that a president
would, in fact, ask if he is the
target of
an investigation, when the
president does
that, he clearly is sending a
signal to what
should be a very independent,
fair, and objective
investigation by the FBI.
And the fact that he's raised
that question
tells me that whoever is going
to be the next
FBI director, whoever that is,
will probably
get the same question from the
president at
some point in time.
And just because of that fact
alone, I just
think some kind of independent
prosecutor,
committee, commission, whatever
it would be,
but something that is
independent of the White
House and independent of
political influence,
needs to take place in this
matter.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How much does it
matter that
the president, that the White
House is giving
a different explanation for why
this happened?
They're saying it has to do with
a fact that
they say Director Comey wasn't
running the
FBI well, he was -- and the way
they say he
mishandled Hillary Clinton
e-mail situation.
LEON PANETTA: Well, again -- and
I look back
on my days as chief of staff to
the president.
I think that, when a major step
like that
is going to be taken -- and,
clearly, somebody
should have informed the
president that, once
you fire the FBI director, that
there's going
to be a huge backlash because of
the investigation
that's going on -- that, in the
very least,
the reasons for why he's firing
him should
have been set down, so that
everybody had
the same talking points.
And, clearly, that didn't happen
here.
And the president again today
said he had
been thinking about firing
Director Comey
for a long period of time.
So, whatever reasons have been
given in these
last few days has only created
greater confusion
about just exactly why this
happened.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Secretary
Panetta, finally,
in just a few seconds,
obviously, you're a
Democrat, but I know you talk to
a lot of
Republicans.
How much difficulty do you think
this president
is facing in his own party?
LEON PANETTA: Well, you know, I
think, whether
you're a Republican or Democrat,
there is
an interest in conducting an
investigation
into this national security
issue.
We have had a foreign adversary
try to interfere
in our election.
That's a serious matter, and it
needs to be
investigated.
So I think the Republicans, as
well as the
Democrats, are interested in
putting this
back on a track where you have a
fair and
independent and objective
investigation that
determines what happened here,
whether there
was any collusion or not with
the campaign,
the Trump campaign, and what
should be done
to make sure it never happens
again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Former Secretary
of Defense,
former CIA Director, former
White House Chief
of Staff Leon Panetta, thank you
very much.
LEON PANETTA: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we will get
the perspective
of two conservatives on how Mr.
Trump's recent
moves have divided the
Republican Party a
little later in the program.
moves have divided the
Republican Party a
little later in the program.
The president's decision to fire
FBI Director
Comey, the various rationales
that are being
given, and the interview the
president gave
today to NBC are again prompting
many questions
about the way Mr. Trump makes
decisions and
carries out his job as chief
executive.
A "TIME" magazine team had a
chance earlier
this week to get a look at what
life is like
inside the Trump White House.
Michael Scherer, "TIME"'s
Washington bureau
chief, was part of the group
that met with
the president, as it turned out,
before the
Comey firing.
And he joins me now.
Michael Scherer, welcome back to
the "NewsHour."
You and the "TIME" magazine
folks had an unusual
access at the White House.
Tell us about what it was like.
MICHAEL SCHERER, "TIME": We got
there about
6:30.
And we were invited into the
Oval Office,
where he was meeting with a
number of senior
staff, signing the final orders
of the day,
and from there began an almost
three-hour,
two-and-a-half-hour evening, in
which he took
us to many parts of the White
House that most
presidents never take the press.
That includes starting in his
private dining
room, which is just down the
hallway from
the Oval Office in the West
Wing, where he
played us some DVRed clips of
that day's Senate
hearings with color commentary
attached.
And then we walked down the
Colonnade.
And he took us in his elevator
up to the residence
on the second floor of the
executive mansion
and toured us through the rooms
there.
That was followed by dinner in
the Blue Room,
which is the big oval room on
the first floor
of the residence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What did you take
away from
this?
I read the piece today.
And you had, as you said, an
extraordinary
two-and-a-half-hours with him.
From the outside, this is a
presidency that's
almost bathed in controversy.
Did you sense that kind of
tension inside?
MICHAEL SCHERER: There's an
enormous amount
of grievance he feels to the way
he's been
treated.
And that was evident almost from
the moment
we got there.
He was talking about how the
press has mistreated
him.
Sometimes, he included us in
that, although
he was also very gracious and
hospitable,
and talking about how his
message had not
gotten out, how the good things
he had been
doing were not being recognized.
And he returned to that time and
again.
So, there was a clear
frustration.
And, at times, he was very
emotional.
Even when he was watching the
day's hearing,
he was sort of mocking the
witnesses -- and
these are former federal
officials testifying
before the Senate -- because I
think he's
angry at the way the American
people have
been presented the story of his
presidency.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you think
he wanted
to get across most to you?
MICHAEL SCHERER: I think he
wanted to get
that across.
He wanted to make the case that
his presidency
is far more successful than has
been recognized.
There was an interesting moment
where I asked
him, do you think there has been
too much
conflict at the White House at
some points?
And he actually answered by
saying, I think
that may be true, and then he
said, but you
have to understand there's so
much meanness
out there.
And then he reverted back to
name-calling
of various other television
correspondents
and things like that.
But I feel like he is someone
who is trying
to adjust his own personality,
his own history,
his own instincts to an office
that is a very
different structure around him.
And I think he's waffling back
and forth between
the desire to lash out, to come
back over
the top, to confront, which has
been actually
very successful for him through
his career,
and the realities of the White
House, which
are that the president has
enormous power,
but he also is enormously
limited in his power,
that there are lots of
institutions, the press,
the courts, the Congress, that
can constrain
him.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's interesting.
I think you were telling us
earlier today
that it was almost like there
were two operations
going on at the same time.
He has one operation around him
to sort of
protect him, make sure he's all
right, protect
his brand, you said, and then,
on the other
hand, the operation to keep the
business of
the presidency going.
MICHAEL SCHERER: Yes, he is
enormously focused
on his personal reputation and
experience
in office.
And I think he spends a lot of
time watching
TV at night, seeing how things
are being digested.
He's an incredibly erudite media
critic, which
we saw during the campaign.
And that is really separate, I
think, from
what the business of the
presidency is, which
is running a very large and
complicated government.
Now, he's involved in those
issues, too.
It's not as if he's not engaged
in the details
of, you know, getting Obamacare
repeal through
Congress or something like that.
It's just that I think, more
than other presidents,
he's spending a lot of time
focused on this
other thing.
And he does have staff around
him who are
essentially personal staff.
They're not staff that are
plugged into the
hierarchy of a traditional White
House.
They're not reporting directly
to the chief
of staff, and they help him with
that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And any inkling
-- of course,
this was Monday, before we knew
about the
firing of FBI director -- any
inkling something
like that was coming down?
MICHAEL SCHERER: There was no
discussion of
the FBI director, Comey.
The only inkling was, he
returned several
times to his frustration about
the press not
reporting that his wiretapping
tweet of a
few weeks ago saying that Barack
Obama wiretapped
me in Trump Tower, he still
believes, he still
argues, was true, even though
Director Comey
testified that there was no
evidence...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: That he was
wiretapped.
He argues that that...
(CROSSTALK)
MICHAEL SCHERER: And his
argument is a little
complicated.
He is saying wiretapping is in
quotes.
It includes any unmasking by any
officials
of anyone in my campaign, which
may have happened.
And he said he believes that, if
an official
was unmasked in a foreign
intelligence tap,
that would count as wiretapping.
It's a stretch, but his anger at
-- his feeling
of being wronged by the way
that's been discussed,
and I think that includes what
the FBI director
said before Congress, was very
apparent.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Scherer,
"TIME" magazine,
fascinating.
MICHAEL SCHERER: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
Until this week, much of the
country had never
heard of Rod Rosenstein.
But he's been thrust into the
spotlight following
the firing of James Comey.
Late today, leaders of the
Senate issued an
unusual invitation to invite him
to meet with
all 100 senators.
Margaret Warner brings us up to
speed on the
man charged with overseeing the
investigation
into Russia's interference in
last year's
presidential election.
MARGARET WARNER: The author of
the fateful
James Comey memo appeared on
Capitol Hill
today.
Deputy Attorney General Rod
Rosenstein met
with the top Republican and
Democrat on the
Senate Intelligence Committee.
Afterwards, they said Comey's
firing wasn't
discussed.
But Democratic Vice Chair Mark
Warner remained
skeptical.
SEN.
MARK WARNER (D), Virginia: I
think it was
a productive session, but I
still have concerns
about Mr. Rosenstein in terms of
his role
in the Comey departure.
MARGARET WARNER: Rosenstein has
said privately
he didn't initiate Comey's
firing.
Still, there are now nearly as
many questions
for the Justice Department's
number two as
there are for the ousted FBI
director himself.
Rosenstein graduated Harvard Law
School in
1989.
In 1997, he became an assistant
U.S. attorney
in Maryland.
In 2005, President Bush
appointed him the
state's top federal prosecutor,
a post he
held until this year.
In January, President Trump
nominated him
for deputy attorney general.
At his hearing, senators of both
parties praised
him.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY (R), Iowa: I
know of no reason
to question his judgment, his
integrity, or
his impartiality.
SEN.
BEN CARDIN (D), Maryland: Rod
Rosenstein has
demonstrated throughout his long
career the
highest standards of
professionalism.
MARGARET WARNER: The Judiciary
Committee also
received dozens of letters
supporting his
nomination.
One signed by more than 120
former U.S. attorneys
said Rosenstein -- quote --
"epitomizes the
ideal Department of Justice
lawyer."
He was confirmed 94-6.
One no vote, Connecticut
Democrat Richard
Blumenthal, who said he'd use
every possible
tool to block any nominee for
the position,
unless there was a special
counsel assigned
to the Russia investigation.
Attorney General Jeff Sessions
recused himself
from the Russia probe in March,
so when Rosenstein
was sworn in two weeks ago, that
authority
fell to him.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now let's
take a closer
look at what lies ahead for that
Russia investigation.
William Brangham is back with
that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Comey's firing
has sparked
accusations that the president
is trying to
derail the Russia investigation,
or at least
exert more control over its
direction.
So, where does that
investigation go from
here?
Frank Montoya Jr. spent 26 years
in the FBI.
He oversaw national security and
counterintelligence
probes.
And he joins us from Salt Lake
City.
And Amy Jeffress worked on
national security
investigations as counselor to
former Attorney
General Eric Holder and at the
U.S. Attorney's
Office in Washington, D.C.
Welcome to you both.
Frank Montoya, I would like to
start with
you.
You have been talking with a lot
of FBI agents.
Give us a sense of how they are
responding
to Comey's firing.
FRANK MONTOYA JR., Former FBI
Official: You
have heard a lot of descriptions
already in
terms of being stunned or
gut-punched.
Those are, I think, are apropos
of the sense
of -- or the feeling that's in
the organization
right now, that it really did
come out of
the blue.
And they're struggling with it.
But, at the same time, they're
all professionals
at what they do.
They know how to put the mission
first.
And they will continue to move
forward.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Do any of the
agents that
you have spoken with believe
that the firing
was justified?
FRANK MONTOYA: Absolutely not.
This was, again, out of the
blue.
It was one of those things
where, even amongst
those few critics in the
organization, the
independence of the FBI -- and
Jim Comey represented
that well -- the independence of
the FBI is
utmost in their minds.
It's the only way that they feel
like they
can go forward and do the work
that they do.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Amy Jeffress,
I will turn
to you.
What was your reaction to
Comey's firing?
AMY JEFFRESS, Former Justice
Department Official:
I absolutely agree with what
Frank just said
and what Andy McCabe testified
to in Congress
today, which is that my
perception is that
Director Comey did have the
confidence of
the agency.
And certainly the actions he
took last summer
and in the fall were
controversial, and many
people can criticize certain
aspects of what
he did, but I don't think anyone
can say that
he wasn't independent or that he
wasn't trying
to do what he perceived as the
right thing
at the -- at every step of the
investigation.
And my sense is that the agents
really felt
like he was supportive of them
and that he
would have their back and that
he wanted to
let them do their jobs
professionally and
independently.
So, I think morale is not good.
Agents are disappointed at his
firing.
But I also agree with Frank that
the agents
will continue to do their jobs
as best they
can, because that's their
tradition.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Amy, what did
you make of
Deputy Attorney General Rod
Rosenstein's letter
that catalogued a whole slew of
criticisms
of Comey's handling of the
Hillary Clinton
investigation?
AMY JEFFRESS: Well, the letter
contained some
criticisms that I think many
people would
agree with.
But, on the other hand, I didn't
see it as
any real justification for
Director Comey's
firing.
And I don't think that that
firing was handled
in a way that any career
Department of Justice
prosecutor, which Rod Rosenstein
is, would
have liked to see it handled.
It just -- it didn't go
according to the process
that should have been followed.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I'm going to
ask you...
(CROSSTALK)
FRANK MONTOYA: I agree on that
one, by the
way.
I would like to interject there.
I mean, this was really about
independence.
And that's where the rubber
meets the road
on this and what is causing us a
lot of concern
right now within the FBI.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Frank,
sticking with you
then, what does this mean for
the ongoing
Russia investigation?
I mean, there has got to be a
new head of
the FBI put into place.
What does this firing and the
subsequent events
mean for that probe?
FRANK MONTOYA: Well, Andy McCabe
put it very
succinctly today.
It will move forward.
The men and the women of the FBI
will do the
right thing.
They will continue in their
mission.
And that includes investigating
the interference,
Russian interference, into our
democracy and
all things associated with that.
There is a lot of determination
to get to
the bottom of this.
It was unfortunate that Jim is
not going to
be at the head of this
investigation anymore,
but they will continue to do
what it is they
have sworn an oath to do, and
that is to pursue
this and other investigations to
the full
extent.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Amy Jeffress,
I don't know
if you heard this, but Leon
Panetta was just
telling Judy Woodruff that he
thinks that
this firing and the way that it
was handled
just has undermined the
credibility of the
probe and that any subsequent
FBI head is
going to face similar pressures
from the White
House.
And he's arguing, in essence,
that a special
counsel, a special prosecutor is
what's needed
to really get this thing done.
AMY JEFFRESS: They have
certainly strengthened
the arguments for a special
counsel.
I absolutely agree with that.
I wouldn't have said that that
was necessary
before the events of the last
two days, but
I think that firing Director
Comey made that
argument much stronger.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And Frank
Montoya, would
you agree with that as well,
that this -- I
mean, yes, the attorney general,
the deputy
in the FBI said today he thinks,
internally,
it can go forward.
But many other people argue
someone from the
outside has to do this.
FRANK MONTOYA: Well, it will go
forward internally.
I mean, the question now is,
there's so much
of this that is public, and so
we're talking
about not public trust in the
FBI, but in
the integrity of the
investigation.
And so I think that that is
where the argument
is going now.
I would also add that, if there
is a special
counselor -- prosecutor picked
or selected,
that it would be FBI special
agents who would
be conducting the investigation
for him.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Amy, what do
you make of
the idea that, if there is a new
FBI director
who is put into place, but that
the political
entanglements just can't really
be undone,
that the pressures are going to
be too great?
AMY JEFFRESS: Well, it's going
to be very
difficult for whoever takes that
position.
But I also worry that we are
focusing perhaps
too much and perhaps we have
overly high hopes
for the FBI investigation and
the Department
of Justice investigation,
because what they're
doing is a counterintelligence
investigation.
The purpose of it is to really
advise the
intelligence community about
what happens
and what can we do to prevent
this from happening
again, what did the Russians do,
what techniques
did they use, how do we block
them from attacking
our democracy in this way in the
future?
And so a lot of what they do is
going to remain
classified.
They're not going to be issuing
a public report
at the end of the day telling
the American
people, here's what happened.
We want to explain it to you.
That's really not what the
Department of Justice
does.
That's why I think there is a
very good reason
for Congress to continue with
its investigation,
because I think they will have a
greater role
in doing that, in reporting to
the public
about what happened.
And I think the public needs
that at this
point.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, Amy
Jeffress,
Frank Montoya Jr., thank you
both very much
for being here.
FRANK MONTOYA: Appreciate it.
AMY JEFFRESS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we try to
explore how President
Trump's firing of Comey has
divided Republicans
with Steve Deace.
He's a popular conservative
radio talk show
host in Iowa.
And David Avella, he's chairman
of GOPAC.
It's a Republican political
action committee
devoted to both national and
state races for
office.
And welcome to both of you to
the program.
DAVID AVELLA, Chairman, GOPAC:
Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Avella, I'm
going to
start with you.
What's your assessment of the
president's
decision to fire James Comey and
how he handled
it?
DAVID AVELLA: The president
didn't have a
choice.
There is a term in the military
called combat
ineffective.
And James Comey had become
combat ineffective,
that the -- he had become a
political punching
bag.
And, gosh, for most Americans,
it was causing
whiplash.
One day, Republicans were for
him, and one
day, they were against him.
One day, Democrats were for him,
one day,
Democrats were against him based
off what
he was saying in any given press
account that
he did.
Secondly -- and there were
plenty of media
stories about this last fall --
about how
FBI agents and the bureaucracy
at the FBI
didn't trust him any longer
about the way
he was handling the
investigations.
And so he had become ineffective
inside the
building, and he was a political
punching
bag outside the building.
The president didn't have a
choice.
He had to get rid of him.
And let's keep in mind the FBI
director serves
at the will and pleasure of the
president.
When you don't have the
president's confidence
anymore, you're gone.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steve Deace, how
do you see
-- what's your assessment of the
president's
move?
STEVE DEACE, Radio Talk Show
Host: Well, I
agree with David's analysis of
why this had
to be done.
It was hilarious watching John
Podesta at
5:00 on Tuesday talk about what
a terrible
person -- I'm sorry -- at 11:00
on Tuesday
talk about what a terrible
person Comey was,
and then, at 5:00, suddenly,
this was Watergate
and Comey shouldn't be fired.
So, I agree with David's
analysis of the hypocrisy
here, but the execution and how
this was done
undermines the White House's own
cause, Judy.
And even if you buy into what --
to wild conspiracy
theories, and even if you agree
that most
of the media is liberal -- and I
do -- and
would like the see Trump fail,
he can't play
into that.
And he does this systematically.
You can't have Sarah Huckabee on
day two of
her tryout essentially to
replace Sean Spicer
contradicting everything she
said on day one.
You can't have the vice
president seven times
yesterday say that they got rid
of Comey on
a recommendation from the deputy
A.G., and
then have the president go off
and do his
own interview with Lester Holt
where he said,
I was going to get rid of him
irregardless.
I mean, they have to understand,
even if they
believe everyone is against
them, that you
have to understand the
environment you are
in, and you have to plan
accordingly.
They often don't.
And they often help to feed
these narratives
that work against them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Avella,
what about Steve
Deace's point that the way the
White House
has handled this is what is
hurting them?
DAVID AVELLA: It may not be the
way human
resource manuals 101 suggest
handling things.
But the best way a president can
see how he's
doing is based off midterm
election.
And next year, voters are not
going to the
polls to cast their votes based
on James Comey
getting fired or not fired.
They're going to base their vote
on, are there
more jobs, have we been kept
safe, the two
reasons why President Trump was
elected in
the first place?
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about this
Russia investigation,
though, David Avella?
DAVID AVELLA: Judy, I defy any
member of the
media or any Democrat to find 10
voters who
were influenced and impacted by
the alleged
information about -- from Russia
that they
received last year during the
election, and
the first nine can be liars and
say they did.
You're not going to find 10
people who were
influenced by what they heard
last year about
Hillary Clinton.
She was mid-40s in her approval
rating in
January before the election.
That's where she was on Election
Day.
Voters' opinions of Hillary
Clinton didn't
change through the election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Be that as it
may, Steve Deace,
what about the credibility of
that investigation?
How much does that matter to
this president?
STEVE DEACE: Well, I think the
last election
proved really that I don't know
how much Trump's
credibility really matters to
most voters
that would even consider voting
for him, especially
last year, Judy, when the proxy
for the other
side was maybe the most
dishonest politician
of her era.
And for Trump, I think it comes
down to this.
Everything David said there is
right.
But you get to a point where the
lack of execution
gets in the way of you actually
delivering
on your promises.
And right now, they're trying to
ram through
a health care fix that doesn't
repeal Obamacare,
that 26 percent of Americans
like.
We're not sure what the tax
reform proposal
is going to look like.
They have got to actually get to
doing the
things they promised the
American people they
would do.
If they do those things, then,
as the people
showed in the 1990s, when we
went after Bill
Clinton, if the economy is
great, I have got
jobs, and my wages are doing
well, then I
really don't care what your
character is.
But if things aren't going well,
then suddenly
I care, and I care a lot.
And this White House needs to
actually start
governing.
And, Judy, I will just give you
one quick
example before we went on the
air, Trump trolling
Rudy -- or trolling Rosie on
Twitter.
That's funny when the economy is
growing at
4 and 5 percent.
It's petulant and immature when
it's not.
They have got to govern, and
just stop the
consistent trolling and reality
show and actually
govern the country, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Talking about
Rosie O'Donnell.
David Avella, respond to what he
said.
And, also, I want to ask both of
you, as we
wrap this up, what's going to
determine whether
the White House gets back on an
even keel
in the short-term or whether
things just continue
to -- seem to be in turmoil?
DAVID AVELLA: In this
environment, it's hard
to define what even keel will
mean.
And there will always be --
there's very strong
feelings about this president on
both sides.
But what are they going to judge
his legacy
on or his presidency on?
Are we getting results?
Are there going to be more jobs?
And, look, there is much
discussion even amongst
-- and Steve mentioned it --
even amongst
conservatives, oh, we're not
doing enough.
We're a few months into this
administration.
And there are plenty of
examples, particularly
at the state level, where GOPAC
focuses, where
maybe a Republican governor and
a legislature,
when they first enact something,
it starts
out unpopular, but then when
people start
seeing the actual positive
results, those
governors, those legislatures
are reelected
overwhelmingly.
And if President Trump delivers
on the positive
things that he talked about,
more jobs saved
for Americans, he's going to be
reelected.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you're saying
it doesn't
matter about the Comey -- the
Comey incident
won't matter in the end.
DAVID AVELLA: It doesn't.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steve Deace,
what's going to
determine whether things
stabilize, seem to
get back on track, or remain --
I would use
the same word -- in turmoil?
STEVE DEACE: Judy, when I used
to do sports
talk radio, what I would find is
that if the
team's quarterback ran afoul of
the law, but
he had played well in his last
game, most
fans didn't care, but if he had
played poorly
in his last game, suddenly, they
wanted him
disciplined and the program
needs to stand
for something bigger.
I think that also applies here.
If he governs well, if they get
results, then
I think most people will say,
that's just
Trump being Trump, and, frankly,
he -- a lot
of the same that people don't
like him, I
don't like either.
But if this is the substitute
for governing,
if this is what they do instead
of getting
results, if they have nothing
else other than
this reality show, then I think,
in November
of 2018, you will see that
rubber band snap
back, and it will do so with
extreme prejudice.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steve Deace, talk
show host
joining us from Iowa, David
Avella from GOPAC
here in Washington, gentlemen,
thank you very
much.
DAVID AVELLA: Thank you.
STEVE DEACE: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: President
Trump signed a pair of executive
orders addressing
two of his key priorities.
One aims to strengthen the
federal government's
cuber-security.
White House Homeland Security
Adviser Tom
Bossert said that will help
protect the nation's
critical infrastructure from
attacks.
TOM BOSSERT, White House
Homeland Security
Adviser: The trend is going in
the wrong direction
in cyberspace, and it's time to
stop that
trend and reverse it on behalf
of the American
people.
We have seen increasing attacks
from allies,
adversaries, primarily
nation-states, but
also non-nation-state actors,
and sitting
by and doing nothing is no
longer an option.
JUDY WOODRUFF: President Trump's
second executive
order established a bipartisan
commission
to review claims of voter fraud
in the U.S.
Mr. Trump has alleged, without
evidence, that
three to five million people
voted illegally
in the 2016 presidential
election.
The city of New Orleans today
removed a statue
of the president of the
Confederacy, Jefferson
Davis.
It's the second of four
Confederate monuments
slated to come down.
In the dark, wee hours of the
morning, workers
wearing bulletproof vests and
helmets removed
the statue from where it stood
since 1911,
as protesters cheered.
There was no advance public
notice of the
operation, due to threats of
violence against
the removal crews.
There's word that the Trump
administration
is considering an expansion to a
ban on laptops
in the cabins of all U.S.-bound
air flights
from Europe.
The ban was initially imposed in
March to
cover 10 airports in the Middle
East, North
Africa and Turkey.
It was put in place over
concerns that a concealed
bomb could be installed in
laptops and in
other large electronic devices.
In India, 24 people died
overnight when a
wall collapsed during a wedding
celebration;
28 others were injured.
It happened in a town south of
New Delhi.
The 80-foot wall gave out during
a powerful
dust storm, trapping guests
inside the wedding
hall.
It's the latest in a string of
building collapses
in India, largely due to shoddy
construction.
Young people with the HIV virus
now have a
near normal life expectancy,
thanks to improvements
in antiretroviral therapy.
That's according to a new study
published
in "The Lancet HIV" medical
journal.
It found young HIV-positive
adults are living
a decade longer than they did 20
years ago.
Researchers attribute that
progress to new
and less toxic drugs and better
screening
and prevention.
The U.S. Senate has
overwhelmingly confirmed
Robert Lighthizer to be the next
U.S. trade
representative.
He will play a critical role in
renegotiating
the North American Free Trade
Agreement, among
other things.
Lighthizer served as deputy U.S.
trade representative
in the Reagan administration.
And stocks fell on Wall Street
today, dragged
down by losses in the retail
sector.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost 23 points
to close at 20919.
The Nasdaq fell 13, and the S&P
500 slipped
five.
The Nasdaq fell 13, and the S&P
500 slipped
five.
We turn now to an overlooked
story: why some
men are not pursuing certain
types of jobs
that are mainly held by women.
Our economics correspondent,
Paul Solman,
has the story.
It's part of our weekly series
Making Sense,
which airs every Thursday on the
"NewsHour."
PAUL SOLMAN: Out back of their
classroom in
Columbia, South Carolina, 4- and
5-year-olds
are building a fortress with
their teacher,
Mr. Jamie Browder.
Browder is that rare bird: a man
in a woman's
world of work, an early
childhood teacher
in a profession that's been a
measly 2 to
5 percent male for years, is
desperately looking
to up the percentage.
Meanwhile, so many male jobs in
industry have
gone poof, 5.7 million since
2000 in manufacturing
alone, that de-industrialization
has become
a stock explanation for Rust
Belt resentment,
even the election of President
Trump.
WOMAN: I agree with the fact
that Americans
should be America first.
MAN: And I think Americans
should have first
opportunity on jobs.
PAUL SOLMAN: And, in fact, the
share of working
men ages 25 to 54 has fallen
dramatically
since 1957, fully 12 percent
having dropped
out of the work force entirely.
So, why aren't there more Jamie
Browders?
Betsey Stevenson has a wry
answer: Manly men
don't want to do girly jobs.
BETSEY STEVENSON, Former Council
of Economic
Advisers Member: So, if you look
over the
last 20 years, we have lost five
million jobs
in manufacturing and gained nine
in education and health
services.
So we're more than making up for
the jobs
we're losing, but the
characteristics of those
jobs, the identity associated
with a worker
who holds one of those jobs, the
pay associated
with those jobs are different.
PAUL SOLMAN: Different by
cultural stigma.
And that's true of jobs in home
health care,
nursing, and early childhood
education, like
the job Jamie Browder has had
and loved for
13 years.
So I asked him, why don't more
men go into
this profession?
JAMIE BROWDER, Teacher: I think
it's a lack
of information, a lack of
understanding how
you can contribute to the
children's lives,
a lack of understanding what you
mean to a
community.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, men see jobs
like grade school
teaching as low status, low
upward mobility.
JAMIE BROWDER: It's almost like,
if you enter
the classroom, this is where you
will be,
and this is where you will spend
the rest
of your life.
PAUL SOLMAN: You're stuck.
JAMIE BROWDER: You're stuck, and
this is the
set, scheduled pay.
So you will only be able to move
yourself
up through additional education,
which requires
money, and then also by just
each additional
year.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, you can't have
a fantasy
about striking it rich, you
mean?
JAMIE BROWDER: No, no, no.
And I think that's almost
somewhat anti-American.
PAUL SOLMAN: Professor
Stevenson's answer
is more gender-specific.
BETSEY STEVENSON: I think they
feel stigmatized,
like they're going in to do
girls' work.
These are jobs.
They're good jobs.
But at the same time, we need to
recognize
that there are a lot of guys who
feel, either
because their friends or their
community or
because of themselves, like,
when they take
one of these jobs that they are
doing something
girly.
And that feeling is a barrier
for them.
PAUL SOLMAN: S.O., you know what
that says?
CHILD: So.
PAUL SOLMAN: Excellent.
Terrific reading there.
Now, not all men feel this way.
I once taught kindergarten.
And Jamie Browder obviously
wasn't hindered
by the girly work stigma.
But, in fact, says Browder,
being a man is
a key asset for fellow teachers.
JAMIE BROWDER: Because I think
you offer a
different perspective.
They want to see what a man
would say, because
there's a lack of men in that
particular school,
say, our school right here.
So, how do you see this?
What should I do in these
situations?
PAUL SOLMAN: A different
perspective, what
diversity so often brings to the
table.
Also, as a male in the
classroom, Browder
gets to be a gender role model
for boys at
a formative age.
JAMIE BROWDER: Very few times I
can remember
when there was actually a female
student brought
to me and said, they need a role
model.
PAUL SOLMAN: But, with Browder,
it's a regular
occurrence.
So, shouldn't more men do as
Browder does
and buck the stereotype?
Economist Nancy Folbre isn't so
sure.
NANCY FOLBRE, University of
Massachusetts:
That question makes it sound too
simple, as
though, if guys could just get
over their
social norm obsession, they
could really go
out there and get a good job and
make the
economy better.
And I think that's a kind of
silly proposition.
PAUL SOLMAN: Look, says labor
economist Teresa
Ghilarducci, the stigma of
women's work has
a basis in reality.
TERESA GHILARDUCCI, Labor
Economist: Female-dominated
jobs are stigmatized because
they're lower-paid.
If we're going to attack
patriarchy and stigma
of women vs. men, then we should
attack it
on an economic basis, and use
that old fashioned
idea of comparable worth, bring
up jobs that
women have to the same level of
the equivalent
jobs or comparable jobs that men
have.
PAUL SOLMAN: Now, like the rest
of us, Browder
wouldn't turn down a raise, but
he says:
JAMIE BROWDER: I think there's
an underestimation
of the pay.
PAUL SOLMAN: How much do you
make?
JAMIE BROWDER: Over $50,000.
PAUL SOLMAN: And you have
summers off.
JAMIE BROWDER: And summers off,
and also take
home additional work to gain
additional income.
PAUL SOLMAN: And Browder's wife
also works,
lifting them well into the top
half of American
household incomes, and very
comfortably middle-class
in South Carolina.
So, again, what's keeping men
away?
JAMIE BROWDER: I think it's also
helped that
I have had professional
development, done
tons of reading about, how do
you approach
children when they are
exhibiting challenging
behavior, they are needing your
help?
And what comes through in all of
those readings
and professional development is
to inner spaces
being calm.
You have to be calm.
You will de-escalate a situation
if you remain
calm.
PAUL SOLMAN: Browder's point is
that he has
loads of education compared to
most American
men, barely one in three of whom
gets even
a four-year bachelor's degree.
JAMIE BROWDER: Are they willing
to go through
the training, you know, pay for
the education,
the continuous recertification?
Are they ready to undertake all
of these steps
to get to this space?
PAUL SOLMAN: But to Betsey
Stevenson, our
cultural definitions of gender
roles play
a bigger part in keeping men
away, and not
just from pre-K classrooms.
BETSEY STEVENSON: When we think
about things
like home health care aides,
people tend to
think of that as a very female
job.
But, in truth, that's a job
that's about physically
lifting, moving, restraining
people.
And those jobs require great
physical strength
that you could imagine a
different culture
where we said, oh, those are
jobs for men.
PAUL SOLMAN: Stevenson isn't
blaming manly
men for not doing girly jobs.
She just wants to change the
connotations
of manly and girly, or ditch the
adjectives
entirely.
But that will take time, says
Jamie Browder,
which means we should focus on
the next generation.
JAMIE BROWDER: Let's look at our
young boys
and say, instead of trying to
enforce this
masculinity onto them, let's
start to look
at different ways of being.
Let's look at being able to show
them and
give them opportunities to have
-- to be the
nurturers.
Let's put them in places where
they can really
take care of others.
And I think that's where the
work, in my opinion,
should come.
PAUL SOLMAN: Because the men
right now aren't
going to be going into this
profession?
JAMIE BROWDER: I don't think so.
PAUL SOLMAN: Because it's too
much work, too
predictable, too much
preparation?
JAMIE BROWDER: Right, not enough
mobility.
PAUL SOLMAN: And it's not manly,
yes?
JAMIE BROWDER: I look at this as
very manly.
This is the work that men should
do.
PAUL SOLMAN: But the stereotype
is that it
isn't.
JAMIE BROWDER: The stereotype,
yes.
PAUL SOLMAN: In Columbia, South
Carolina...
Sorry.
I'm busy.
I'm working on building a castle
with bricks.
Talk to you later.
Economics correspondent Paul
Solman reporting
for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Great story.
And in an upcoming Making Sense,
Paul profiles
a star second grade teacher
who's fighting
the manly man stereotype both
inside the classroom
and out.
the manly man stereotype both
inside the classroom
and out.
Now another in our Brief But
Spectacular episodes,
where we ask interesting people
about their
passions.
Tonight, we hear from artist and
poet Jess
X. Snow, who uses her art to
help her overcome
a speech impairment.
JESS X. SNOW, Artist: My
parents, they grew
up in a government in China that
had a lot
of censorship.
And when I was discovering art
for the first
time, I felt like there was a
door that opened
in my family's ancestry, and I
could be -- I
could be the first person to
tell our story
without the fear of censorship.
And I felt like me reclaiming my
voice in
the U.S. and overcoming my
stutter created
a doorway into being able to
share my family's
story to the public.
I would get bullied a lot in the
classroom,
and people would finish my
sentences for me.
Through my art, I was able to
see myself overcoming
my stutter.
I found a community of poets of
color when
I was in college.
And that was the first time I
was able to
share my poetry on a stage.
When that happened, I just
stopped.
I stopped stuttering.
Imagination is daring to love
what is not
in front us.
So, what then is immigration, if
not imagination
given a destination?
Migration is magic.
Of course they're afraid of all
who possess
it.
A lot of my work is inspired by
the idea that
migration is natural.
And I just think a border drawn
upon the earth's
skin is extremely unnatural.
And when people's families and
lives are policed
by borders, the result is that
young immigrants
grow up feeling like their
identities are
divided and they have to give
up, like, their
homelands, they have to give up
their connections
to their families.
Maybe I will have a stutter for
my whole life,
but, regardless, I'm able to
accept it because
to be an artist is to create a
home for yourself
in your work, regardless of how
many times
your identity has been split,
whether it's
by immigration or a speech
impediment.
My name is Jess X. Snow, and
this is my Brief
But Spectacular take on why
migration is natural.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Jess, we're
cheering you
on.
And you can find a link to Jess'
latest short
film, "Migration Is Natural," on
our Facebook
page, and additional Brief But
Spectacular
episodes on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour/Brief.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening with Mark Shields and
Ramesh Ponnuru.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and we will see you soon.